# 👋 Hey! I'm Lucas 

Hey, I'm Lucas, a developer based in Canada and Computer Science student at McMaster University.  This is the first of hopefully many blog posts I will be writing! I've been programming now for over 5 years since I started grade 9.  My interests are primarily on backend web development, low-level programming, programming robots for competitive robotics competitions including FIRST Robotics Competition.  I also enjoyed writing in high school a lot which is a large reason I am creating this blog!  As I come across articles, news stories, new technologies etc. that I find interesting, I may choose to write about them here as well as personal opinions I have on the current state of software development and technology in the world.

Right now, I am working on programming a calendar backend called Tally.  Tally performs the basic functionality of a calendar app such as adding, creating and deleting events (I know, *revolutionary*), but also uses something called repetition patterns to create simple and complex event repetitions.  I also have plans on adding auto-inserting events within set time period, an HTTP API for interacting with the backend, a cli, *maybe* gui, and a plugin system!  If you find this interesting, I will be open sourcing the current progress soon and continue to write about it here.

Another project on the back burner is a Minecraft panel written in go called openmc-panel.  This is to be a fully featured, lightweight minecraft panel using go for the backend api, and react for the frontend.  The main goal of this project is to create a FOSS minecraft panel that you could run with very minimal overhead.  From personal testing, with 10+ users logged into the panel at once and under load, the memory spikes at about 50mb and stays at 10mb< idle with an unnoticable cpu usage (task manager said 0.1% idle and max 0.5% under load so take that as you will).  If this interests you feel free to check out my [GitHub](https://github.com/LucasJoel1), it is filled with both completed and incomplete projects like those two.

Thank you for taking the time to read my blog post.  If you have anything you want me to write on, have a cool project idea or just want to connect, feel free to send me either an [email](mailto:contact@lucasjoel.com) or connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/lucas-joel).
